2020-001 Security flaws in CSRF prevension
==========================================

The Sympa Community
2020-02-24 (Update)


Synopsis
--------

A fix is available for a vulnerability discovered in Sympa web
interface.


Systems Affected
----------------

  - Sympa version 6.2.38 to 6.2.52 inclusive.


Problem Description
-------------------

A vulnerability has been discovered in Sympa web interface that can
cause denial of service (DoS) attack.

By submitting requests with malformed parameters, this flaw allows to
create junk files in Sympa's directory for temporary files.  And
particularly by tampering token to prevent CSRF, it allows to originate
exessive notification messages to listmasters.


Impact
------

Possibility of denial of service (DoS) because of disk full or flooding
messages.


Workarounds
-----------

No workaround is known at the present.


Solution
--------

  - Upgrade to version 6.2.54

      - Source distribution: [sympa-6.2.54.tar.gz](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.54/sympa-6.2.54.tar.gz)
      - Binary distributions: Check release information by
        distributors.

or

   - Apply a patch

      - [sympa-6.2.52-sa-2020-001.patch](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.54/sympa-6.2.52-sa-2020-001.patch)

      Download appropriate patch file and save it in your server.  Move
      into the directory where `wwsympa.fcgi` is installed, and apply
      patch:
      ``` bash
      # patch -p1 < sympa-6.2.XX-sa-2020-001.patch
      ```
      Then restart web interface.


CVE Numbers
-----------

[CVE-2020-9369](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-9369)


References
----------

  - [GitHub issue sympa-community/sympa\#886: Security flaws in CSRF prevension](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/issues/886)
  - [Sympa 6.2.54 announce](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/tag/6.2.54)


Acknowledgements
----------------

The security flaw this advisory describes was reported by Javier Moreno.


Change log
----------

  - 2020-02-24

    Initial version published.

  - 2020-02-24

    CVE numbers: CVE-2020-9369 was assigned.
