2020-003 Defects in the access restriction of Sympa SOAP/HTTP interface
=======================================================================

The Sympa Community
2021-01-04 (Initial version)


Synopsis
--------

A fix is available for defects in the access restriction of Sympa
SOAP/HTTP interface.


Systems Affected
----------------

  - All versions of Sympa prior to 6.2.60


Problem Description
-------------------

Defects has been discovered in ``authenticateAndRun`` call of
Sympa SOAP/HTTP interface by which access restriction can be bypassed,
and therefore these things are allowed:

- bogus session ID
- the session ID which belongs to different user

As a result, any SOAP call can be executed.

For more details see [References](#references).

This problem does not apply to environments where the SOAP/HTTP server
(``sympa_soap_server.fcgi``) is not running.


Impact
------

Attacker can execute any SOAP call by privileges of any Sympa accounts.


Workarounds
-----------

  - Currently no workarounds are known except shutting down SOAP/HTTP service.

Solution
--------

  - Upgrade Sympa to version 6.2.60 or later

      - Source distribution: [sympa-6.2.60.tar.gz](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.60/sympa-6.2.60.tar.gz)
      - Binary distributions: Check release information by
        distributors.

or, if you have installed Sympa using earlier version of source distribution,

   - Apply a patch:

     Patch for Sympa 6.2.28 to 6.2.58: [sympa-6.2.58-sa-2020-003-r1.patch](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.60/sympa-6.2.58-sa-2020-003-r1.patch)


CVE Numbers
-----------

[CVE-2020-29668](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-10936)


References
----------

  - [GitHub issue sympa-community/sympa\#1041: Unauthorised full access via SOAP API due to illegal cookie](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/issues/1041)
  - [Sympa 6.2.60 announce](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/tag/6.2.60)


Acknowledgements
----------------

The security flaw was initially reported by
Stefan Brenner.


Change log
----------

  - 2021-01-04

    Initial version published.

