2020-002 Security flaws in setuid wrappers
===========================================

The Sympa Community
2020-05-24 (Initial version)


Synopsis
--------

A fix is available for a vulnerability discovered in Sympa web
interface.


Systems Affected
----------------

  - All versions of Sympa prior to 6.2.56


Problem Description
-------------------

A vulnerability has been discovered in Sympa web interface by which
attacker can execute arbitrary code with root privileges.

Sympa uses two sorts of setuid wrappers:

  - FastCGI wrappers
  - newaliases wrapper

The FastCGI wrappers
(`wwsympa-wrapper.fcgi` and `sympa_soap_server-wrapper.fcgi`)
were used to make the web interface running under privileges of a
dedicated user.

The newaliases wrapper (`sympa_newaliases-wrapper`) allows Sympa to
update the alias database with root privileges.

Since these setuid wrappers did not clear environment variables,
if environment variables like `PERL5LIB` were injected, forged code
might be loaded and executed under privileges of setuid-ed users.


Impact
------

Attacker can execute arbitrary code with root privileges.


Workarounds
-----------

  - Stop using FastCGI wrappers and remove them

      1. Modify configuration for HTTP server so that it will not use the
         wrapper.  For detailed instructions see:

           - Configure HTTP server: Instruction by HTTP servers
             [https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/install/configure-http-server.html#instruction-by-http-servers](https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/install/configure-http-server.html#instruction-by-http-servers)

      2. Remove executable files of FastCGI wrappers (replace $EXECCGIDIR
         below: See [https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/layout.html](https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/layout.html)):

         ```
         # cd $EXECCGIDIR
         # rm wwsympa-wrapper.fcgi
         # rm sympa_soap_server-wrapper.fcgi
         ```

    Note that newaliases wrapper may not be removed.

  - No workaround has been known about some obsoleted systems requiring
    FastCGI wrapper, in particular Apache HTTP Server 2.2.x and earlier.

Solution
--------

  - Upgrade to version 6.2.56

      - Source distribution: [sympa-6.2.56.tar.gz](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.56/sympa-6.2.56.tar.gz)
      - Binary distributions: Check release information by
        distributors.

or, if you have installed Sympa using earlier version of source distribution,

   - Apply a patch to the source, recompile wrappers and reinstall them:

     Patch for sympa-6.2 or later: [sympa-6.2.54-sa-2020-002-r2.patch](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.56/sympa-6.2.54-sa-2020-002-r2.patch)


CVE Numbers
-----------

None yet.


References
----------

  - [GitHub issue sympa-community/sympa\#943: Security flaws in setuid wrappers](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/issues/943)
  - [Sympa 6.2.56 announce](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/tag/6.2.56)


Acknowledgements
----------------

The security flaw this advisory describes was reported by
Nicolas Chatelain, Sysdream Labs.


Change log
----------

  - 2020-05-24

    Initial version published.
