2021-001 Improper use of cookie parameter
=========================================

The Sympa Community
2021-04-2X (Initial version)


Synopsis
--------

Inappropriate use of the `cookie` parameter can be a security threat.
This parameter may also not provide sufficient security.


Systems Affected
----------------

  - All versions of Sympa prior to 6.2.62.


Problem Description
-------------------

Earlier versions of Sympa require a parameter named "`cookie`" in
`sympa.conf` configuration file.

This parameter was used to make some identifiers generated by the
system unpredictable. For example, it was used as following:

  - To be used as a salt to encrypt passwords stored in the database by the
    RC4 symmetric key algorithm.

    Note that RC4 is no longer considered secure enough and is not supported
    in the current version of Sympa.

  - To prevent attackers from sending crafted messages to achieve XSS and so
    on in message archives.

There were the following problems with the use of this parameter.

  1. This parameter, for its purpose, should be different for each installation,
     and once set, it cannot be changed.
     As a result, some sites have been operating with this parameter set to an
     empty value.
     This completely invalidates the security measures described above. 

  2. even if the parameter is properly set, it may be considered not being
     strong enough against brute force attacks.

For the above reasons, administrators are recommended to do the following.

Impact
------

Attacker can achieve XSS and so on in message archives.


Workarounds
-----------

If you are operating without setting the `cookie` parameter and you cannot
upgrade to the latest version of Sympa right now, set a value for that
parameter.

However, if you are using 6.2.40 or earlier, you need to upgrade your
RC4-encrypted passwords by running `upgrade_sympa_password.pl` (with
6.2.16 or later) or `sympa.pl --md5_encode_password` (earlier) before
setting the parameter.


Solution
--------

The root solution is to upgrade to Sympa 6.2.62 or later which no longer use
the `cookie` parameter.

Check "[Upgrading Sympa](https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/upgrade.html)"
in the Administration Manual for upgrading instruction.


CVE Numbers
-----------

None yet.


References
----------

  - [GitHub issue sympa-community/sympa\#1091: Obsolete `cookie` parameter](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/issues/1091)


Change log
----------

  - 2021-04-2X

    Initial version published.

