2024-001 Improper input validation on generic SSO login
=======================================================

The Sympa Community
2024-12-16 (Initial version)

Synopsis
--------

A fix is available for improper input validation on generic SSO login feature
of Sympa web interface.

Systems Affected
----------------

-   All versions of Sympa prior to 6.2.74.

Problem Description
-------------------

A flaw was discovered in the generic SSO functionality of Sympa web interface
in a specific setting that could allow an attacker to bypass authentication
and log in with an arbitrary e-mail address.

Impact
------

Attacker may bypass authentication and log in with an arbitrary e-mail address.

Workarounds
-----------

*   If the web interface, `wwsympa` service, is not available at all,
    you are not affected by this problem.

*   If you do not enable generic SSO, i.e. `auth.conf` does not contain
    `generic_sso` paragraph, you are not affected by this problem.

*   Even if generic SSO is enabled, if you don't set `force_email_verify` to
    `1`, you are not affected by this problem.

Solution
--------

*   Upgrade Sympa to version 6.2.74 or later.

    *   Source distribution:
        [sympa-6.2.74.tar.gz](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.74/sympa-6.2.74.tar.gz)

    *   Binary distributions: Check release information by distributors.

    Check "[Upgrading Sympa](https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/upgrade.html)"
    in the Administration Manual for upgrading instruction in general.

or, if you have installed Sympa using earlier version of source distribution,

*   Apply a patch:

    Patch for Sympa 6.2 to 6.2.72:
    [sympa-6.2.72-sa-2024-001-r1.patch](https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases/download/6.2.74/sympa-6.2.72-sa-2024-001-r1.patch)

CVE Numbers
-----------

[CVE-2024-55919](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-55919).

References
----------

https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/pull/1917

Change log
----------

-   2024-12-16

    Initial version published.

